---
layout: paper
title:  "Abstract"
date:   2020-05-04 17:26:41 +0900
categories: bookmark
---
Low-power and wide-area (LPWA) technologies have become popular in various IoT services, mainly due to their low power and long communication range characteristics. However, LPWA still suffers from limited coverage and reliability issues, especially in an urban area where line-of-sight (LOS) communication is hard to achieve. The problem gets worsening in massive IoT environments as LPWA is vulnerable to the collision because of its long transmission time and unsophisticated Aloha-based MAC, which gets worse as the number of contending devices increases. Placing a relay forwarder between end-devices and gateway is introduced in some studies to extend coverage and to enhance communication reliability of LPWA. However, most previous studies adopt fixed-routing protocols for the relay. These fixed path approaches are vulnerable to the dynamicity of wireless propagation and make little use of multiple receptions, so it may easily lead to unnecessary forwarding that may raise collisions aggravating overall reliability and performance. We propose an opportunistic routing protocol for LPWA forwarders to make good use of multiple receptions. To suppress unnecessary forwarding, we adopt an on-demand/feedback message mechanism that is used by relays to determine whether to forward a packet or not. We also employ a network coding in generating forwarding packets in relays to increase the reliability and throughput further. As header overhead of network coding may exceed the size limitation of the LPWA packet, we use a header compression technique to encounter it.

Index Terms—LPWA, unnecessary forwarding, on-demand, opportunistic forwarding, network coding, header overhead.